So what is accessibility?
It really is ensuring that people can
use the experiences that we build,
regardless of their physical ability,
mental ability, that they can
interact with these services and products
that we're putting out on the web.
It also means that people
can contribute to the web.
So if we're making authoring tools or,
I mean, a lot of services that
we're building these days
are things we use in the workplace,
HR software, banking software.
I mean, all of those things are really
important to be accessible, right?
So this topic can apply to so
many different things.
And I think sometimes
organizations get that.
It starts to get real muddy when it's less
of a clear requirement, like in agencies
where you can kind of ship stuff without
anyone really holding you accountable.
I think we can do better, though.
I work in an agency now too,
again, and it's great,
but the requirements
are a little bit more loose.
And so, sometimes we really have to be
the champions within our workplaces
to get people to understand the cost of
what not doing accessibility would mean.
So the cost, really, to kind of get into
that is that someone with a disability
wouldn't be able to use your web
application or your website.
They might not be able to independently
enter their bank details or something.
It becomes a privacy issue or
a security issue.
And so it sort of snowballs
into being a bigger cost for
those individuals, but
those individuals are often marginalized.
So that's kind of the heart
of what we're getting at,
is not marginalizing people
who have a disability.
It's kind of a, I don't know, heavy
feeling when you really think about it.
It's not just edge cases here, these
are real people that we're talking about.
So it's foundational and there is
a rich history of disability rights and
activism to try and
make things more accessible.
Here I have a picture of the Capitol Crawl
from the 70s here people
physically put their bodies on
inaccessible stairways to advocate for
accessible spaces, including
the Americans with Disabilities Act.
Which is a big piece of legislation
in the United States that codified
a lot of these requirements.
And so people have been fighting for
access for decades, and it's really
relevant to us now in that we're still
pushing for the web to be accessible.
We have some benefits of being developers
in that it's a lot easier to rebuild
a digital space than a physical space.
So we can incrementally improve things.
We can totally tear it down and
start over without having to
tear down a physical building.
We can make changes to things a little
bit easier in a lot of cases, not always.
I work on a code base that
is not that easy to change.
So it does take some effort and some
planning and lots of development cycles.
But it can be done.
So really recognize that
history of activism,
that's kind of an important part of
it that we should really remember.
And there are so
many different types of people in
the world that when disability
as a topic comes up,
we wanna consider all of the different
ways that people move through the world.
What are people's bodies, how does that
impact how they interact with a computer?
If someone has a vision disability,
that's kind of the area we hear about the
most with people who use screen readers.
We'll dive way into screen
readers in the next section.
But vision is one aspect of disability.
Someone could have limited movement
if they can't use a mouse,
a pointing device,
cognitive disabilities for thinking,
remembering, learning,
communicating, hearing.
That's a big one for
accessibility that's often forgotten.
So things like transcripts and
closed captions.
This workshop will need to be
captioned for people to follow along.
And people can have more
than one disability.
People don't fit neatly into little boxes.
And so we wanna consider the broad kind of
spectrum of the human experience when it
comes to disability,
because it can affect anyone at any time.
So it really affects all of us
when you think of it that way.
It's not the other person that
someone else, it's not my customer,
it's not my problem.
Well if you look a little closer,
it probably is your coworker or
your customer might have color blindness.
They might have diabetes and
they're at risk of losing their eyesight.
Like I hear these stories all the time
when you ask people and they go, wait,
I do have a connection to this.
And so, yeah.
>> I got my eyes dilated yesterday,
and as I was sitting there waiting,
I was looking at my phone,
everything got blurrier and blurrier.
And then I left, and
then I had to do something on my phone and
I couldn't read my phone anymore.
So I had to pull out
the accessibility zoomer on my phone.
So that type of stuff affected
me directly yesterday.
>> Wow, yeah, and
your phone has great tools for that.
My parents have their phones
zoomed way in, you look over and
their font size is huge.
Technology is adaptive and it's so cool.
I mean, bicycles are adaptive.
There's all kinds of things in
the world now that we can adapt to make
them suit our lived experience more.
And the web has so many different
things that we can make better.
And they're not even that hard.
It's just it's stuff
that gets marginalized.
So I'm here to hold your hand.
[LAUGH] We're gonna do it cuz there's so
many easy wins.
The most accessibility issues that we see
out there in the world are really easy
things to fix.
So we can be glass half full thinkers and
just go all right,
we've got lots of stuff we can fix.
Let's fix it.
Let's build it right from the first
time because it is really adaptive, and
we can make it work.
And I'm pretty optimistic about it.
So it's really easy to find
accessibility failures out there and
accessibility folks, I love them.
I think it's part of the coping mechanism
of dealing with the fact that the web
isn't very accessible,
is to point out the failures and
then as a group you're like,
isn't this terrible?
But we need more wins too.
It's like we don't wanna
be drowning in misery.
We want to highlight our wins.
So I encourage you when you get
something that's an improvement,
even if it's a work in progress,
celebrate it.
Give kudos to your teammates,
share things with your teams.
Share what you've learned if you've
got the capacity to write it down.
Some of the blog posts
that I wrote in the past,
I'm really glad I wrote them because I
captured what I learned at the time.
And I just want to encourage
everyone to celebrate your wins.
I created a blog a while back called
Accessibility Wins that was aimed
at doing this.
It got a little hard to maintain
because I've always was striving for
perfection and that's just not realistic.
We don't need to be perfect.
We just need to keep putting in
the effort to make things better.
And if it takes a number of cycles or
iterations on something
to get it better and better,
I think that's okay.
But we've got some really important
reasons to overcome what I'm calling
access debt.
So we have design debt, we have
technical debt, we have access debt.
Stuff in our code base,
I mean the design and development are so
overlapping in what create these problems
that we've got a unique type of debt,
that is accessibility debt.
And the reasons that we
need to overcome it,
the most basic reason thinking
back to the Capitol Crawl and
the disability rights and activism is,
it's a civil right to have access.
And that should be enough,
that really should be enough of a reason.
It's something we've been fighting for for
decades and we really should honor that.
It's the right thing to do.
Sometimes that is just
lost in translation.
And so depending on who you need to
convince, maybe you have some other
stakeholders or coworkers or people who
just don't care for whatever reason.
There's other reasons that we can
kind of pull out as a carrot.
We have the carrot and
the stick way of communicating our
reasons why this is important.
The legal issues are a big stick to use.
People, depending on
what country you're in,
you have different laws that make
accessibility a requirement, especially in
certain sectors like anything procured
by the federal government, education.
There's lots of different areas
where the legal side applies.
It's not my favorite aspect of it,
but it is part of it.
Sometimes pride in your craft is
the way to get through to people,
like being pragmatic about
quality in your software.
And sometimes that can be the angle to
get someone sort of selfishly to care
about it is that you can make it easier
to test, you could make it more robust.
Being able to make your application
respond to different user inputs that you
haven't even thought of yet.
It's just more robust software.
And it's mostly,
the web is mostly accessible by default.
We just have to try not to mess it up.
And then there's business cases.
If you have to convince
business stakeholders,
maybe there's a way to persuade
these folks about having a larger
customer reach,
a risk of losing out on business.
And so, yeah, there's all these different
levers that we can kind of pull
to make the case for accessibility.
Which I do have to say though,
as a single interactive developer,
UI developer, full stack, whatever your
role is, it's a bit much to try and
carry this weight on your
back all the time to be like,
I'm doing this work and trying to
convince everyone around me to do it.
So I want you to give yourself some grace.
That's why accessibility can be sort
of draining, but I want to invigorate
you to find the things that you can
control and that you can change.
And we want to make progress.
That's why celebrating
those wins is important.
We want to balance all of this
with getting our job done and
upholding quality among all the other
things that we have to think about.
I have some links here if you want
to learn more about the legal side.
There is a link in here about Target's
legal case, sort of relevant.
It's how I got into accessibility
was because of that legal case.
So if you wanna read about that.